>> Nina Zakharenko: Next we're
gonna talk about commits.
Commits are just like the other types
of git objects that we talked about.
A commit points to a tree, and
it contains some other metadata.
It contains the author and the committer,
who might be different people although
we generally don't use git that way.
A date when the commit was created,
a message, and a parent commit,
we can have one or more, we might have
more parents in the case of a merge.
And the SHA1 of the commit is
the hash of all of this information.
So a commit looks something like this.
Has that commit, identifier, the size,
which tree it's pointing to.
So that's kind of the root directory.
Which parent it's pointing to,
the author and the message.
So, commits point to parent commits.
In this example the lower commit is
that green circle that starts with fa.
That's the very first
commit in our repository.
The initial commit doesn't have a parent.
It's first.
The second commit,
the green circle above that,
points to the first commit as its parent.
So, graph.
So, these commits point to trees,
just one tree,
and that tree points to other trees and
other commits, and so on and
so forth.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
that's our parent commit and
this is a tree.
Now, the tree is a snapshot
of the repository.
Of what the repository staging area
looked like at the time of the commit.
It points to those files and folders.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
a commit is a code snapshot, what the
project looked like at that point in time.
And it's a combination of the changes from
the staging area on the previous commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: When we make a commit,
the first status line that we'll
see tells us what the hash
of that commit is.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You guys have all
seen this message before.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we look in
.git/objects.
All right, let's see the hash
here was adf, starts with adf.
If we look in .git/objects, we'll see now
that there is a subdirectory called ad,
with a new file on it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now
what happens if we try to look at one of
these git objects with cat for example.
You're gonna get a whole
lot of nothing and
that's because these binary objects,
they are compressed.
So if you wanted to look at them,
were going to use another plumbing
command and git called git cat-file.
This one has two useful
flags that you can use.
I'm sorry.
-t will print the type.
So here if I git cat-file -t, that commit,
the commit that we made earlier,
we'll see that the type is a blob.
If we wanna print the contents of
the object, we use the -p flag.
So, we cat the file that's or
the content that's
pointed out by that shot
starting with 980 and
we get back the data that we put in hello
word.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's try
this again with some of the other objects
that were created in that .git directory.
So here I'd pick another commit.
That one's a tree.
I'm sorry, I'd pick another sha
to pass in to git cat-file -t.
This time I get a tree.
If I print the contents of that I get,
that first number is the mode,
so that says if it's executable,
for example.
The next is the blob that's
stored in that tree, and
that points to hello.txt.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
the next time we try to do this,
we get back our commit.
So if we look at this commit,
we have the tree that it's pointing at,
the author, which is me.
The committer, also me.
And a message, the initial commit.
So these commits are just objects
that you can poke around and look at.
There's nothing particularly
scary about them.
But the most important lesson
that you can learn from
this section is that we
can't change commits.
We can't change them,
we can't change them with re-base,
we can't edit them, we can't go back.
And change the author.
We can't edit that specific
commit because if you change
any of the data about the commit,
the commit is gonna have a new SHA1.
So even if you copy everything else,
you're gonna have a new date
when that commit was created, meaning
that commit will have a different SHA1.
Even if it has the same contents.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
you can't change the file,
the date, commit message.
Any of that other data in git without
changing the IDs of everything after it.
And that's a great security feature,
it means that if you have a commit ID,
you can really be
assured that not only is your project
exactly the same as when it was committed.
But that nothing in its
history has changed, right?
No one can go, no malicious actor can go
and forge with something and your commit
history without it being very obvious.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Another
really great thing is that
prevents against corruption.
So, if something has
gone wrong with the disk,
it will tell you that the content and
the SHA don't match.
Now, a quick note about references.
References are just pointers to commits.
We have a few types of them.
We're gonna talk more about them later.
But we can have tags, branches, or head.
So head is a special type of pointer and
get.
It points to the current commit.
When you check out a branch,
HEAD also points to the current Branch.
So, it's just the very
last commit that you made.
Now, why is changing branches
in Git lightning fast?
It's not pulling down new data.
All it's doing is just changing a pointer.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If
we look at the references under the hood,
if I look in my .git directory,
there are two important places
where those references are stored.
The first is a file called all
upper case HEAD in .git and
the next is refs heads.
That directory refs/heads is
where all your branches live.
Now, if I look at my
history I have one commit.
Here, the initial commit.
It starts with a hash adf0.
If I cat the docket
/refs/heads/master file,
I'm gonna get back the SHA
of that initial commitment.
So, it's just a pointer.
It's one of those handy features so
you don't have to remember
these big long jobs, right.
It makes git human-readable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now
if we check out the contents of .git/HEAD,
we'll see that at this point in time,
HEAD, our current branch pointer
is also pointing to master.
And master's pointing to
the initial commit, so
HEAD is also pointing
to that initial commit.
And there are some cases where HEAD can
point to a commit instead of a branch, and
we'll talk about that a little bit later.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
here we can see that HEAD is
a pointer to the current branch.
Yes?
>> Student: Can you have two HEADs?
>> Nina Zakharenko: No, just one.
Git only has one HEAD at
a given point in time.
And if you're ever wondering what it is,
you can run that command cat.git/HEAD and
it'll tell you what HEAD is pointing at.
>> Student: So I think in Mercurial,
I think you can have two HEADs.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Mercurial is
a different beast.
Before we move on to the exercise,
does anyone else
have anything to ask about
what's in the .git directory?
So we talked about three types of objects,
the blob, the tree and the commit.
We talked about where
references are stored.
And we talked about how to
see what HEAD points to.